Retro Cons on VCS chapter, consecutive headers (#8)
paulowoicho/the-turing-way: book/website/reproducible-research/open/open-access.md

At the turn of the 21st century, a new movement appeared with a clear objective: make all the research results available to anyone interested in reading it, free of charge by any user, with no technical obstacles such as mandatory registration or login to specific platforms.
This movement took the name of "open access" and established two initial strategies to achieve its final goal: self-archiving and open access publishing.

(rr-open-access-whatis-repositories)=
### Repositories and Self-Archiving

The self-archiving movement aims to provide tools and assistance to scholars to deposit their refereed journal articles in open electronic repositories.
As a result of this strategy, we see self-archiving practices where researchers deposit and disseminate papers in institutional or subject-based repositories.
There has also been a growth in the publication of preprints through institutional repositories and preprint servers. 
Preprints are widely used in physical sciences and now emerging in life sciences and other fields.
Preprints are documents that have not been peer-reviewed but are considered as a complete publication in a first stage.

> Some of the preprint servers include open peer review services and the availability to post new versions of the initial paper once reviewed by peers.

Author: ```suggestion
Some preprint servers include open peer-review services and the option to post new versions of the initial paper once reviewed by peers.
```

This list features institutional repositories, subject-based or thematic repositories, and harvesters.

Institutional repositories are generally managed by research performing institutions to provide to their community a place to archive and share papers and other research outputs openly.
Research communities usually manage subject-based repositories, and most of the contents are related to a specific discipline.
Finally, harvesters aggregate content from different repositories, becoming sites to perform general searches and build other value-added services.

When choosing a journal to publish research results, researchers should take a moment to read the journal policy regarding the transfer of copyright.
Many journals still require that authors transfer full copyright for publication.

This transfer of rights implies that authors must ask for permission to reuse their work beyond what is allowed by the applicable law, unless there are some uses already granted.
Such granted uses may include teaching, sharing with colleagues, and self-archiving papers in repositories.

> Sometimes, there are standard policies among all the journals published by the same publishers. 

Author: ```suggestion
Sometimes, there are standard policies across all journals maintained by the same publishers.
```

> Sometimes, there are standard policies among all the journals published by the same publishers. 

Author: ```suggestion
Sometimes, there are standard policies across all journals maintained by the same publishers.
```

> Such granted uses may include teaching, sharing with colleagues, and self-archiving by researchers of their papers in repositories.

Author: ```suggestion
Such granted uses may include teaching, sharing with colleagues, and self-archiving papers in repositories.
```

> This transfer of rights implies that authors must ask for permission to reuse their work beyond what is allowed by the applicable law unless there are some uses already granted.

Author: ```suggestion
This transfer of rights implies that authors must ask for permission to reuse their work beyond what is allowed by the applicable law, unless there are some uses already granted.
```

However, in general, journals have their own policies, especially when they are published on behalf of a scientific society.

> When looking at the self-archiving conditions, we must identify two key issues: the version of the paper that can be deposited, and when it can be made publicly available.

Author: ```suggestion
When looking at the conditions for self-archiving, we must identify two key issues: the version of the paper that can be deposited, and when it can be made publicly available.
```

Regarding the version, some journals allow the dissemination of the submitted versions, also known as a preprint. 

> They also allow its replacement for a reviewed version once the final paper has been published.

Author: ```suggestion
They also allow its replacement with the peer-reviewed version once it has been published.
```

Due to the increase of policies requiring access to research results, most of the journals allow self-archiving of the accepted version of the paper, also known as the author manuscript or postprint.

> This version is the final text once the peer review process has ended but does not have the final layout of the publication.

Author: ```suggestion
This version is the final text following the peer review process but does not yet have publication formatting or layout applied.
```

This version is the final text following the peer review process but does not yet have publication formatting or layout applied.
Finally, some journals do allow researchers to deposit the final published version, also known as the version of record.

> Concerning the moment to make the paper publicly available, many journals establish a period from its original publication - the embargo period, which can range from zero to 60 months - when making the paper publicly available is not permitted.

Author: ```suggestion
Concerning the moment to make the paper publicly available, many journals establish a period from its original publication - the embargo period, which can range from zero to 60 months - where making the paper publicly available is not permitted.
```
